# Charts

Helm le llama Chart a su unidad mas pequena de instalacion y deployment. Un chart es un 'paquete' que contiene por lo menos:



- `Chart.yaml`: describe datos y metadata del Chart.
- `templates/`: transforma los k8-manifest a manifests que se pueden desplegar.
-  `values.yaml`: que define parametros con los cuales uno puede manejar y configurar con el Chart.


???+ info ""
    Por lo menos estos 3 componentes se pueden empaquetar en un Chart el cual puede ser desplegado en cualquier ambiente y usualmente se pueden "subir y guardar" en un repositorio como https://hub.helm.sh.


> [Charts Docu](https://helm.sh/docs/topics/charts/)

# Como crear un Chart ?


```
$ helm create voter

```


Esto creara una estructura de directorio de la siguiente manera (con scaffold):

```
voter/
├── Chart.yaml
├── charts
├── templates
│   ├── NOTES.txt
│   ├── _helpers.tpl
│   ├── deployment.yaml
│   ├── ingress.yaml
│   └── service.yaml
└── values.yaml

```



# Chart.yaml
Cambiemos la descripcion

```yaml
apiVersion: v1      # The chart schema version, always v1 for Helm 2
version: 0.1.0      # The version of the chart. Change this for each release.
appVersion: "1.0"   # The version of the main app in this chart. OPTIONAL
description: An example cloud native voting app
name: voter
```
Save this. You can verify that you correctly entered the data by running:

$ helm inspect chart ./voter
apiVersion: v1
appVersion: "1.0"
description: An example cloud native voting app
name: voter
version: 0.1.0
Next, we'll start working with Helm templates

Configuring the Front-End
Take a look at the values.yaml file generated for us:

# Default values for voter.
# This is a YAML-formatted file.
# Declare variables to be passed into your templates.

replicaCount: 1

image:
  repository: nginx
  tag: stable
  pullPolicy: IfNotPresent

nameOverride: ""
fullnameOverride: ""

service:
  type: ClusterIP
  port: 80

ingress:
  enabled: false
  annotations: {}
    # kubernetes.io/ingress.class: nginx
    # kubernetes.io/tls-acme: "true"
  path: /
  hosts:
    - chart-example.local
  tls: []
  #  - secretName: chart-example-tls
  #    hosts:
  #      - chart-example.local

resources: {}
  # We usually recommend not to specify default resources and to leave this as a conscious
  # choice for the user. This also increases chances charts run on environments with little
  # resources, such as Minikube. If you do want to specify resources, uncomment the following
  # lines, adjust them as necessary, and remove the curly braces after 'resources:'.
  # limits:
  #  cpu: 100m
  #  memory: 128Mi
  # requests:
  #  cpu: 100m
  #  memory: 128Mi

nodeSelector: {}

tolerations: []

affinity: {}
This default values file has standard configurable parameters pre-defined. These parameters are used by files in templates.

The default Helm chart defines three Kubernetes resources:

A Deployment for running a microservice
A Service for routing traffic to that microservice
An Ingress that can optionally be turn on to allow external traffic to access your app
It just so happens that we need these things for our example. So to get started, we'll change the default values to make use of them.

In the images section, make the following changes:

Point repository to dockersamples/examplevotingapp_vote
Set tag to before
And also change one thing in service:

port: 5000
(See the images list in the main README for a quick description of each.)

Once you've done that, you will have a runnable chart that we can test. We'll be able to install it, but not use it.

If you are on Azure, add --set service.type=LoadBalancer to the end of the following command

$ helm install -n voting-app ./voter
# ... some info
Note that both a deployment and a service are created for you. If you are using Docker Desktop, you'll be able to see your new app by pointing a web browser at localhost:5000. For other clusters, flag down one of us and ask about how to configure it.

At this point, your new app won't work, because it will be trying to contact a Redis database that is not there. In the next section, we'll look at adding some other parts.